Thread by thread, stitching it together
Twilight's dress, cutting out the pattern snip by snip
Making sure the fabric folds nicely
It's the perfect color and hip
Always gotta keep in mind my pacing
Making sure the clothes' correctly facing
I'm stitching Twilight's dress

Yard by yard, fussing on the details
Jewel neckline, don't you know a stitch in time saves nine?
Make her something perfect to inspire
Even though she hates formal attire
Gotta mind those intimate details
Even though she's more concerned with sales

It's Applejack's new dress

Dressmaking's easy, for Pinkie Pie something pink
Fluttershy something breezy

Blend color and form
Do you think it looks cheesy?

Something brash, perhaps quite fetching
And eye, couldn't you just simply die?
Making sure it fits forelock and crest
Don't forget some magic in the dress

Even though it rides high on the flank
Rainbow won't look like a tank
I'm stitching Rainbow's dress

Piece by piece, snip by snip
Croup, dock, haunch, shoulders, hip
Thread by thread, primmed and pressed
Yard by yard, never stressed
And that's the art of the dress!

Twilight Sparkle: Now, the stars on my belt need to be technically accurate. Orion has three stars on his belt, not four.
Stitch by stitch, stitching it together
Deadline looms, don't you know the client's always right?
Even if my fabric choice was perfect
Gotta get them all done by tonight
Pinkie Pie, that color's too obtrusive
Wait until you see it in the light
I'm sewing them together!
Pinkie Pie: Don't you think my gown would be more "me" with some lollipops?
Rarity: Well, I think...
Pinkie Pie: Balloons?
Rarity: Well...
Pinkie Pie: DO IT!
Hour by hour, one more change
I'm sewing them together, take great pains
Fluttershy, you're putting me in a bind
Rainbow Dash, what is on your mind?
Oh my gosh, there's simply not much time
Don't forget, Applejack's duds must shine
Dressmaking's easy, every customer's call
Brings a whole new revision
Have to pick up the pace, still hold to my vision
Twilight Sparkle: That constellation is Canis Major, not Minor.
Fluttershy: French haute couture, please.
Rarity: Ugh...
Applejack: What if it rains? Galoshes!
Pinkie Pie: More balloons! Oh no, that's too many balloons. More candy! Oh, less candy. Oh wait, I know. Streamers!
Rarity: Streamers?
Pinkie Pie: Whose dress is this?
Rarity: Streamers it is.
Rainbow Dash: What?
Rarity: Aren't you going to tell me to change something too?
Rainbow Dash: No, I just want my dress to be cool.
Rarity: Do you not like the color?
Rainbow Dash: The color's fine, just make it look cooler.
Rarity: Do you not like the shape?
Rainbow Dash: The shape's fine, just make the whole thing... you know, cooler. It needs to be about 20% cooler.
All we ever want is indecision
All we really like is what we know
Gotta balance style with adherence
Making sure we make a good appearance
Even if you simply have to fudge it
Make sure that it stays within our budget
Got to overcome intimidation
Remember, it's all in the presentation!
Piece by piece, snip by snip
Croup, dock, haunch, shoulders, hip
Bolt by bolt, primmed and pressed
Yard by yard, always stressed
And that's the art of the dress!